---
title: "Q'uo on Positive Magical Working"
layout: post
date: 2023-11-16
categories:---

The High Altitude Receiving Center has begun releasing transcripts and recordings of the fifth channeling intensive sessions, and I've spent the last week going over this material and trying to get clear on its import. In that work I really think [this session](https://harc.otherselvesworking.group/2023-11-05/3/quo-on-positive-magical-working) is particularly interesting because it threads the needle between more specific information, general principles of magical working, and warnings to seekers.

I wanted to share some excerpts, but the entirety is worth reading.

> We would point out that the ambient energy, which we have called prana, which is drawn into the mind/body/spirit complex through the red ray and upward to the orange and yellow and green and so forth, increases in its potential as it rises through the spectrum of the energy centers. And by the time this energy has undergone the transformative effects of passing through balanced energy centers which themselves have become crystallized, the amount of power that reaches the indigo ray center is nothing short of awe-inspiring. 

…

> Therefore, once again, we register our admonition to the adept for you are indeed playing with fire. So what is it then that we would recommend to one who has discovered within the self the desire to be of service in the manner characteristic of the magical adept? And we would say that the first virtue that needs to be cultivated is the virtue of patience. For this is an effort that reaches satisfactory conclusion only very slowly, and a premature outreach using the energies that are beginning, and we emphasize that term beginning, to come within the authority of the newly minted adept are of a nature that is surpassing strange, that invokes dimensions of the energy system of the self previously unknown to the self, and powerful beyond the capacity of the self to conceive. 
>
> The distortions that can arise through a use of these energies not fastidiously directed can have their effects reaching well beyond the incarnation in question, and can require many, many future incarnations to bring into balance. Thus again, and for the fourth time, we register our admonition. It is well to begin small and, in the beginning of the focusing of the power of will, to remind the self again and again and again and again that the nature of the polarity one has invoked is positive. It is for service-to-others that one seeks this power and none other, not the slightest sliver of other, for the slightest sliver of service-to-self will redound to eternity. 
>
> To start small means, perhaps, to aid in the growth of a very small flower, to frolic in concert with the fluttering of a butterfly, to add just the smallest tincture of hope to the energy complex which you share with others in third density upon your planet. These are modest magical workings and would permit a little bit of inner imbalance without, in the projection, creating great imbalance in the effects that are sought to be produced. We feel that we have almost certainly disappointed those who aspire to adepthood by our many admonitions and our limited suggestions concerning how the early efforts in the magical domain might be made. We apologize for this, my friends, for any effort of the will that seeks to reach across the divide of the veil is an effort that does well to be very, very sure of itself, because the reaching across the divide of the veil is a vastly empowering attempt. 

…

> Now, let us say for instance, one has done due diligence in the quotidian details of emotion and balance, and one is beginning to feel the regularity at that indigo center that begins to complete the circuit through which power and purpose may flow. It is most importantly not our role, you see, to dissuade you from experiencing that intensity of creatorship. That is not the point of our warning. Therefore, one can safely assume that  one will be addressing one’s shadow self even as one begins to dip the ladle into the cauldron of more focused selfhood, more projective possibilities. How should this be balanced at this more refined level, you may ask?
>
> It must involve a kind of release of this dark side from the responsibility to look out for one’s safety, one’s security. This is a proper role in the full spectrum of selfhood. You are not created as a complex of mind and body and spirit to be fully expected to absorb all influences and stimuli that you encounter. There is the need for a membrane, the balance of homeostasis that creates and recreates one’s experience moment to moment. 
>
> This need for a center does not dissipate as one approaches the throne of power; it becomes all the more necessary. And yet, my friends, and yet one must become more nimble and more fluid in relating to those things that disturb oneself, that call out for a second look, you see. This is a protection in which you can enlist those more wary parts of the self in cooperating with those higher aspects of self. And here we are in part referring to that self that is nearly beyond polarity, the magical personality.
>
> What you would ideally do is call upon this personality to comfort and assuage those worries and reflexes of defensiveness that are part and parcel of individuated selfhood. You would let this higher density construct handle these things. And this is not simply a matter of handing the keys over. It is a nuanced and detailed process, as nuanced and detailed as one’s channeling preliminaries, if not greater. It must be felt sincerely so that an actual partnership may obtain, and you can open up more fully to the possibilities of co-creatorship that transcend one’s third density hopes and aspirations.

…

> The magical adept who has learned to invoke the magical personality is working with the energies of creation in a manner that goes far, far beyond the principal point of this incarnation. And therein lies its beauty. And therein lies its terrible, terrible danger. 
>
> In order to make clear the significance of these points that we have made, let us take an example. Let us say, for example, that you wish to engage in the magical practice of creating a thought form, which is a living arrangement of energy. Let us say, for example, that you wish to create a thought form that will have an effect on a current situation of warfare. You wish this thought form to create the effect of altering a configuration already in manifestation in the direction of peace. Now, you may imagine peace; you may project a vision of peace; you may pour your heart into the hope that peace may come about. And indeed, this will have some very mild magical effect, although it is highly doubtful that even a great number of such individuals and groups that may aspire to the creation of a thought form in this manner would have much effect, for the energies afoot cut deep. 
>
> In order to have a more powerful magical effect, the thought form in question would need to have to it a reflection of the negative energies that are at play and be able in a way that resonates deep into the inner structure of that negativity to bring that to the point of transformation that it may be rendered positive or loving in its effect. However, to an adept or group of adepts unable to be securely anchored in the point where the magical personality resides, beyond the positive and the negative, to delve deeply into that negative register is to risk being drawn down into it. And therefore one dare not attempt such an effort unless one is most secure in the anchoring within the magical personality of which we have spoken. Far better to content oneself with the perhaps less effective but safer modality of simply envisioning peace than to reach into these regions where danger lurks.

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/17wr15o/quo_on_positive_magical_working/).