---
title: Orcas from 1981
layout: post
date: 2024-01-28
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

The Richmond Meditation Group greatly appreciates the psychic and energetic support of seekers today as they made a new contact with the social memory complex of Oorkas. The session was riddled with interruptions that those of Oorkas deftly used to demonstrate how to relate to frustration and failure with that temperament those of Ra called the light touch. Everything has been recorded, mixed down, and transcribed, but give us a bit of time to sit with it as we want to ensure the highest quality, especially when the session was so atypical. Thanks again for all of your love and support.

Here's the 1981 transcript from L/L Research's "Orcas", which I believe is the same complex but which had a different agenda back then through the channel "L": https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1981/0802

> I am Orcas. I have been allowed to contact this group due to an upswelling of emotional sharing between the members of your group and the subsequent reduction of residual animosities between members of your group and others of your race. To attempt to reduce this to a more understandable form, as you love one another more intensely, you overcome your residual irritation with others not in your group.
> 
> As to the purpose of my contact, I am one who may be of assistance in guidance in surviving future events on your planetary surface. There are limitations, my brother, to the amount of information that I can offer without receiving a specific request for that information. I am Orcas.

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1acpsd2/orcas_from_1981/).