---
title: Auxhall on Experience and Instrumentality
layout: post
date: 2025-10-03
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

Here's another excerpt from the same transcript I shared from yesterday, building upon Auxhall's ideas about brotherhood. Carla's part focused on how to serve our other selves, but H's (likely Hal Price, but I can't be certain) section delves more into serving the Creator, the nature of instrumentality, and how individual experience and service are aggregated into the Creator's learning. And it is through the very limitations we press against that we offer this learning to the Creator. If we can trust in the Creator and realizing It's will, the architecture of transmission of this light and experience can benefit us, no matter which level of "us" we're thinking of.

<!-- more -->

> I am Oxal*. I am now with this instrument. We speak often of brotherhoods and of love. We speak often of many things, yet it is most often that we speak of the need for personal, shall we say, progression through the proper utilization of your experiences, and through the advocations towards your meditations. It is for you to realize that you progress not only for yourself but for the benefit of the universe, for the fulfillment of the Creator’s will. For as you have learned, and as we speak of it, all things are indeed one with each other, and one cell, shall we say, cannot live without reflecting that growth upon the others. The universe is forever expanding, and it becomes more illumined, as do you. You, my friends, are the reflectors of the light of the Creator, and as your capacity for reflection becomes greater, that reflection of light throughout the universe is enhanced, in order that it may spread to the farthest reaches in order that it may be shared by your brothers.
> 
> You are the mirror of truth and of light. Each individual must take upon himself the responsibilities of what you would call light, and that is to progress spiritually, and to allow the love to take form within you, and to be shared with those around you. It is your responsibility to refrain from those avenues of expression which will be negative, not only to yourself but to those around you. You should not indulge in mental, shall we say, activities that are harmful to you or your brother: activity such as judgment, activity such as possessing, or limiting in any way the thoughts or actions of another.
> 
> My friends, you are unlimited beings, and you lead an unlimited experience. You may accept upon yourself those limitations by which you unconsciously desire to learn, yet when you are done with them, you shall release them and realize the capacity within you to create and to become equal, or shall we say, become aware of your equality with all mankind, and all things within the universe. What you do unto yourself is not only done to you, but it is done to all around you. The Creator finds no separation between you and your brother, for your energy fields coincide and enmesh together to present a group energy field that reflects the light and the wisdom that is contained within it. Self-motivation upon your path of evolution is important. It cannot be for yourself that you desire to progress, or for your fellow man. It should be for the benefit of the Creator and all of the Creation, knowing that you are a portion, that you are important, and that you are capable of assisting [in] bringing about the love and the light in greater clarity throughout the universe.
> 
> You are instruments in many, many ways and you can choose what forms of instrumentality you desire to use. Yet know that what you choose to do to be perfected, and that in order to perfect it you must allow it to flow freely from the Creator. Do not block your instrumentality through lack of faith in His ability to work through you and His willingness to perfect you. Fear not, my friends, for fear is the creator of that experience. Lack of fear brings about harmony in experience. Experience _[inaudible]_. The fear that we find in your people reflects about them, and draws to them what it is that they fear.
>
> This, my friends, is one reason that we must communicate with you in this manner, for we are feared by your peoples and our presence would heighten those fears. And this is not our desire. We are servants unto ourselves and unto you, our brothers, and above all things are servants in the name of the Creator. When it is made known to us that we can dwell among you in harmony and be accepted as your brethren, we shall remain, serving in what ways that we can, and bringing forth to you, the people of Earth, our knowledge and our light. Call upon us when you will, for whatever assistance that you need, and we will provide that assistance which is of the will of the Creator. Ask nothing in your prayers, either of us or of the Creator, that is of a selfish nature. Ask to be guided as a servant and all that you need shall be provided. Seek not spiritual awareness but a demonstration of truth; seek that spiritual awareness in order to become truth. In order [for] you [to] receive the right to demonstrate to and share with others the truth that you are, you must first become that truth and understanding, and merge entirely with it into the universal aspect of light. You must be one with the Creator, for He is the truth, and through Him, you shall reflect that truth to others.
>
> You are not alone, my friends. You stand with the Creator and your fellow man upon the brink of a civilization which is to be brought about in your actions, a civilization in which man may draw close to one another in the ways which have been intended: in harmony and in service to one another and in tune with your Creator.

\- [Auxhall via H: October 15, 1976](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1976/1017)

\* for the sake of fidelity to the transcript, I kept L/L Research's spelling here

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1nwo9rh/auxhall_on_experience_and_instrumentality/).