---
title: Hatonn on Love, Meditation, and Creation
layout: post
date: 2025-08-11
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy---

OK, here you see me struggling with getting a concise excerpt from this session. The segment channeled by Carla was good, but I thought this one featuring "H" -- who I am pretty sure must be [Hal Price](https://www.llresearch.org/history) -- got into some more interesting territory. Hatonn discusses the nature of analysis both positively, as a way an individual subjectively wrestles with the information received, and negatively, as a impediment to the love for which the concepts and words are mere carrier waves. The process of working with this information is the same now as it was fifty years ago: one of employing _both_ the intuition and the intellect, taking personal responsibility for the insights each faculty conveys to the seeker while appreciating the tentative and incomplete nature of these analyses.

This leads Hatonn to an interesting take on "you create your own reality." The way I see their words is that it is the very uniqueness of our perspective that imbues our creative nature with that singularly divine quality. Our subjective and personal interpretation of the events we are witness to seems to me to comprise the Creator's investigation of itself in the guise of our seemingly limited and separate status. And just as we are the projected, attenuated focus of the Creator's awareness, our circle is beginning to learn that we have this same role in relation to the planet as well. It is our job not to elevate our intellectual civilizing over the natural processes of the Earth in an act of domination and control, but instead to learn how our self-awareness and mental acuity is part of the planet's emergence into self-awareness.

I'm hoping our circle will be able to address this topic more soon, perhaps at our invitational event this weekend. In the meantime, enough interpretation! Here's Hatonn:  

> I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. When we speak of the concept of love, we attempt to the best of our ability to bring to you our understanding of a concept which is infinite and unfolding to us and to you at all times. A concept which contains, shall we say, the explanation of all things. A concept which is much more than you shall ever realize by the utilization of your intellect. We bring to you those messages which we feel shall assist in your spiritual growth and in your intellectual understanding. We bring to you our love and our light. We offer to you an opportunity--which has been brought about by your own thinking, through your own desire--and that opportunity is for you to come into the light through understanding and experience, to come into the light of the Creator and experience His love and know the concepts of which we speak, enjoying with us and all of our universal brothers in service that which we call the Creator.
>
> Each individual whom we are privileged to make contact with is presented with this opportunity, with our experiences, into our light. We can offer no more at the present time. But also, there is no need for there to be any more offered. For if you are open, if you are truly seeking what you refer to as the truth, then you shall recognize it as it is presented and you shall accept it and you shall do with it to the best of your ability that which you [inaudible]. It is you and no other who must analyze that which you receive. It is you who must accept the love. It is you who creates all that you experience. And we would not have been able to share with you our knowledge if it were not for the fact that in truth you were seeking this knowledge.
>
> We are somewhat limited, even through this process, for we must deal with the intellect of each individual. And the individuals, all of them with whom we communicate, have accepted many limitations due to their experiences within this life and we must break not those imitations too quickly. We must offer only that which we feel can be accepted and allow it to be dealt with.
>
> We give to you, and so also do you give to us, the love of which we speak. We cannot begin to explain the great feeling of love we have for those upon your planet and, indeed, for those who would be willing to listen. We are here for this purpose, to assist in the evolution of human thought of man upon planet Earth. Yet we cannot assist without it being requested, for within what you might call the society or upon the level on which we exist, this is a law--that you may not interfere with the free choice of any individual. And as we deal with the planet Earth as a group consciousness, we must be aware of your requests, of your needs and of your desires and of your choice.
>
> Love, my friends, is all the things of which we speak, and it is all the things for which we have no means of expression. Love is the energy upon which you draw to bring into manifestation all that you experience. Love is to each and every individual different, yet the same. The love that permeates throughout the universe is indeed the Creator. The love that is within you is indeed the Creator. You must recognize that the love that is within all individuals is the Creator. You have heard this concept many times. There is what you would call “God” within each individual and you are constantly emanating that energy, that love, of the Creator in all directions, in all your thoughts. Be cautious, indeed, be cautious of that which you project towards your fellow man and towards the universe, for you are the Creator and that which you project shall indeed come into existence and it shall also travel back and affect you, for you are the Creator and you must live within your creation.
>
> Through the process of meditation you may bring into focus the proper, shall we say, realization of your ability to create. Through the process of meditation you may become aware of your divinity and of the divinity of all things. We hope that through the process of meditation you may attune yourselves to the love energies that are constantly about you and that through these energies may be brought about the understanding that you seek and the experiences you desire and the purification of consciousness which is in truth the desire of all those upon your planet. This desire may not come into the realization of each person upon your planet, but as you become more aware, you shall indeed recognize that that desire is within each of us, whether they seek it consciously or not.
>
> You are the only, shall we say, emanation of the Creator that has the ability to formulate your experience. You may share with others in your experiences and you may choose to dwell within the experiences created by others, yet no other can create for you any experience, for you are the Creator, and it is your choice.

\- [Hatonn via H: July 25, 1976](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1976/0725)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1mnlkk4/hatonn_on_love_meditation_and_creation/).