---
title: Hatonn on the Body
layout: post
date: 2025-11-11
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

We've entered 1977, and it will be a very brief visit as there are [only six or so documented contacts in the archive](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1977/1). I would love to know the reason, but I'm not sure there's anybody still around who could explain it -- remember that Jim McCarty doesn't join LLR until 1980ish.

Here we have Hatonn addressing the subject of the body, a subject that has philosophically interested me for some time. When Ra [says](https://www.lawofone.info/s/81#14) that the body is the creature of the mind and an instrument for the manifestation of the fruits of the other complexes, what is the import of this statement? It seems to be in part a crucible of balance, in which one must be judicious about how the fruits of beingness are seated in consciousness such that they blossom into the physical experience. 

Yet if these fruits are the object, what is the subject? This is to me a very important detail of Hatonn's remarks: that because we can think of the body as a kindly vehicle, we can conceive of an identity that transcends it. It strikes me that it is in this transcendence that one can weigh the stakes of manifestation properly, and learn about the infinite self through this experience of limitation. If I'm not terribly far off in my thinking, only by balancing this vehicle of manifestation can this ingress result in a grounded, complete learning returned to the Creator.

What a pickle it is to be both vehicle and driver, both instrument and user, both Creator and creature!

[As I've talked about before](https://youtu.be/JNvsbuAxCiE?si=k0PcKe00ZlDgbpr9), I tend to think of the physical experience as a kind of inflection point for the ingress of spirit/intelligent infinity into the drama of intelligent energy as it is released or conserved at a given moment. If we think of manifestation as this kind of limiting of the self such that this concentrated separation can penetrate the total mystery of the Creator, then we can think of the physical as the deepest point of ingress, the point at which the penetration must reflect back to the Creator.

> Within your universe there is a local phenomenon which is known to you as time and a local set of conditions represented to you by mass and space and your so-called Euclidean geometry. And because of this we speak to you of cycles and of timing our campaign. We are dealing with a local set of parameters and it is in this way that we communicate with you that we bridge the gap between our way of thinking and your way of thinking. There is a level on which the talk of cycles and anything of campaigns is, if anything, only partially so for this is a level of which we are far more aware than you: that all things are truly one; that all cycles truly become circles; that all corners truly become rounded into one unending globe of unity—infinite, invisible, eternal and containing all that there is.
>
> These concepts are not graspable by your peoples and so we deal with the local, understandable frame of reference and say that you are coming to the end of a cycle and that we are attempting to help those of you who wish to be helped at this time to make progress on your cycle so that you may spiral upward in the great dance along the spiritual path. To understand your place in the universe at this time is very, very critical. Because you are within a physical body, it is important that you deal in a balanced manner with your physical existence with the demands and the responsibilities of the physical life. It is very difficult, and purposely so, to balance the physical existence and spiritual seeking. It is to test your ability to do this that you have entered this sphere. It is a great mistake, my friends, to care too much for the physical body and its needs.
>
> Yet, we say to you also, beware of the opposite. Do not care too little for your physical vehicle and its needs. You must look upon your physical vehicle as just that: it is a vehicle. It is functioning well for you and like a good fruit tree, it has grown, it has come into its youth, it has borne truth. Perhaps it has grown a little gnarled, a little bent, and as the years go on it will become increasingly gnarled and it will [have] served its time. All of its fruit will have been given up and it will be cut down. This is your physical body. You may accept it as a good and faithful servant. The circumstances of your being here, of the type and condition of your life, are intended and are offered to you so that you make take your conditions and learn. You may take your body and be of service to others. Your body has hands with which to reach out to others; a mouth with which to smile, my friends; a mind to function well for you and to think well of others. It is not you, but it is no stranger to you. It is yours for a time. Keep this in balance, neither rejecting or being overly fond of those portions of your identity which are only temporary.
>
> In meditation, seek your permanent identity. Within you there is a perfect body. And that body is your spirit. It is not a body as you would think of a body. And yet it is the ultimate house of your soul. To penetrate upward through the various shells of being to the final center of yourself is the goal of meditation. For within that final center is your link with all that there is. We are urging you, shall we say, to do your homework at this time. The joy, the state of joy, my friends, that you left to come into the physical existence is very greatly needed among your peoples at this time. And how few there are that understand that joy is the natural state of existence for each of those who dwell upon the surface of your sphere.
>
> You see, my brothers, you are not on the same order of the apple tree. You are not out in the weather. You do not grow, wither and die. You are a consciousness that is not born and does not die. You are joy. To touch this place within yourself is all-important at this time, for if you can but make contact with your higher self, you can be of great comfort and of great service to many in the days to come. For in the days to come, as we have said many times, there will be many who are afraid, and many who have put off their voyage of self-discovery until the very last minute and who, when they finally realize that they must now decide who they are, will be absolutely terrified. One person, who is sure of who he and is radiating the joy of that knowledge and who can reach out with his light will be of infinite service, as people always have been when they are able to shine with the light and the love of the Creator.

\- [Hatonn via H: April 13, 1977](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1977/0413)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1ou9so0/hatonn_on_the_body/).