---
title: Hatonn on the Singularity of Love
layout: post
date: 2025-09-12
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy---

It's funny because really you could call every Hatonn session in the archive, "Hatonn on Love". They truly excel at teasing apart all the component characteristics of this all-encompassing force. Even in [their latest contact with the Richmond circle](https://har.center/2025-08-15/1/hatonn-on-blending-energies) they speak rather philosophically about the ontological tensions involved in the illusion of separation, yet what is the blending of energies they speak of but yet another manifestation of the reality of this drawing force of love?

That makes this a fitting complement to that message last month. So what's love _this_ time, Hatonn? Well, it's as if love gives us the true map of what is worth seeking in our lives. And in this sense it seems to have a lot to do with attention, because that is what is going to direct our consciousness to the next unlikely example of love. Just as Hatonn recently spoke of the figment involved in dicing up unity into separate objects and then grappling with cause and effect, here they talk about the necessity of both that which yields and that which arrests, that which constrains and that which frees. In other words, though we often fret about our polarity in terms of fourth density harvest, the real truth is that both the negative and positive are needed in order for us to move spiritually.

In the midst of this duality is love, I'm increasingly convinced that love really does not have an opposite; it is merely distinguished in its different forms by the object of that attention. It has no inverse because it cannot be inverted, only directed. It is simply perhaps that, because we have such a human or cultural understanding of that sentimental variety of love we usually think of, it is easier for us to turn love into a present/absent kind of phenomenon---in order to be able to entertain experience.

To return to the simplicity of love is my goal. To realize its actual creative potential is all of our destiny. It is how we find the thread we pull leading back to the Creator in such a dark and scary time as we inhabit. May you find your way back by following the love behind the masks you encounter in your life.

> I am Hatonn. I am now with this instrument. When we speak of the reality of that which you call love, we speak of a universal concept. We speak of a concept with which all things have been created. We speak of a concept which contains all things that you experience. And man of Earth looks about him, and he sees about him that which is disagreeable to what he would desire. And he labels it, what you would call, to be bad or negative.
>
> Yet in essence, my friends, that too is the love of which we speak. For in order to look upon any situation, any experience, or to receive any knowledge, and to have the ability to accept or reject through your own analysis that situation, is truly a gift of love from the Creator. And in order to properly do so, it is necessary that you [have] the balance of the concept of love. For each and every experience there is that which is what you would call the opposite, and through the knowledge of each, you then have the experience of being able to bring into balance both positive and negative aspects in your learning process. Without the knowledge of each, it would be of greater difficulty, or shall we say, even impossible for you to proceed upon your path of truth and enlightenment. For, my friends, without all things that exist within the universe, our creation would be incomplete, and so would our experience.
>
> And indeed, though it be infinite, my friends, our experiences are complete. They are complete, insomuch as they are the manifestation of the concept of love, brought forth through the Creator and His gift of creation to us.
>
> Love, my friends, to those who truly understand, is the tool by which they create. It is the tool or the law by which they live. It is the words they speak and the thoughts that they project. Love, my friends, is that which the Creator is and always shall be. In order that you may come into a clearer understanding of this concept, it is not only necessary, as we speak, for your daily meditation, it is also necessary that you go through the experiences and lessons of your life, and that you meet that which is placed before you, whatever it may be, as a stepping stone upon which you must tread—lightly, regularly and knowledgeably. Meet that which is placed in front of you. Do within that circumstance the best that you know how. Love the experience entirely, whether it be painful or pleasurable. For, my friends, in all things there are lessons that you must learn in order to progress. And placed before you in life there is nothing of coincidence. There is only that which is intended to be learned.
>
> There was one upon your planet with whom you are familiar, whom many call Master. And, my friends, that name can be yours. That concept that he represented, of love, can be yours. Learn to meet head-on all things in the light of love and you shall learn to master all of your emotions and thoughts, and you shall learn to generate within you a brightly luminous flame from the spark of divinity that is within you. Radiate from within the love that you learn, the love that you are, and the love that you know you shall be. For love is ever-growing and never-ending. Love never is depleted nor divided. From within you comes all things, all things that you desire. For indeed, that love within you is the creative force within the universe. You are an extension of the creation, you are the creation, and you are the Creator. You are the light. You are the way, the knowledge, wisdom and truth. You are in the Creator as He is in you, and though you do not understand it through the utilization of your intellect, in true essence you are all things.

\- [Hatonn via H: September 26, 1976](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1976/0926)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1nf1x0l/hatonn_on_the_singularity_of_love/).