---
title: Hatonn on the Bridge of Faith
layout: post
date: 2025-11-12
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy---

Well, as we jump forward from April to August (I have no idea whether this gap represents missing material or a lack of channeling), here's another great example of a session that presages Ra's messages, for those of Hatonn discuss the higher self earlier in this session as well as the impending harvest. Time and time again one discovers the majority of concepts explicated by Ra plainly in material prior to their arrival. It seems clear to me that the flower of narrow band contact grew out of the well churned and fertilized soil that constitutes the earlier conscious work. I simply do not see how one can grasp the full message of the Confederation by concentrating solely on Ra's words, but that's for the reader to decide I suppose.

However, the excerpt is going to focus on Hatonn's point about faith bridging between the intellect and the intuition. I want to highlight the remark about "privately convincing ways" in which faith operates. It strikes me that the operation of the intellect goes far beyond theory or principles that we articulate to each other in our conversations. Much of what the intellect usefully provides are almost like mental and emotional heuristics that help us identify and seat our intuitions. Even imagination plays a role here.

Imagine the mind as not simply spitting out thoughts but in its thinking creating the preconditions for certain future thoughts and ruling out other thoughts. Our patterns of thinking dip in and out of intuition and intellect all the time, situating our seeking in creative ways. With faith, we have a level of observation that transcends the left and right sides of the mind, so to speak, and if this sounds similar to how I've described the spirit complex making self-awareness possible in the past, I don't think that's a coincidence. All of this makes possible the magic of our focused thought that brings everything we experience into manifestation.

One more thing: note how they describe action as "the most expressive form of truth." This seems to underlie the value of manifestation in general as a kind of proving ground for the creativity of the soul. It dovetails with [information my circle has received](https://har.center/2024-08-31/13/monka-on-balancing-faith-and-discernment) about the intellectually perplexing but intuitively cogent necessity to act upon one's understandings as a kind of a test or proof. However, it always seems to begin with meditation as an alignment of the mind with this future fruition.

> We ask, my friends, that as you turn to meditation, you turn with desire to understand fully that which is acceptable, that which is true. Many, many are the philosophies and the religions among your peoples that always, no matter what the disagreements and contradictions of what you may call dogma, always the ethical considerations remain constant. The ethics, that which is acceptable, do not seem to be in question for action is the most expressive form of truth. Therefore, we ask you to meditate and seek that truth. And then go forth and enjoy. Allow that which is acceptable to the Father to flow from you as you have received it in meditation.
>
> Perhaps there is a greater question in back of what we speak to you about this evening. Perhaps while you are within the physical illusion you can never be totally sure that it is truly an illusion and that your real self is completely infinite and has eternal life. It is for reasons such as these that a word known as “faith” was conceived by your peoples. The word has unfortunate connotations, yet it is not foolish to have faith. There are many things which are not seen, but which you for some reason have inner conviction will come to pass. My friends, they will come to pass whether or not you have inner convictions. But your own personal progress along the lines of seeking will be much more rapid if you allow yourself to trust that intuition that tells you that our words are true. As you allow yourself to have as much faith as you may feel comfortable with, that small amount of faith will express itself to you in reflection in many privately convincing ways so that gradually you will not have to go on faith anymore for you will have been shown in ways that are clear to you that that which you had faith [in] is indeed true.
>
> Therefore, my friends, [it] is not the tool of the fanatic or one who is mentally deficient or one who is mentally lazy. Faith is the conscious tool of the intellect used to link your intellect, which is a rather weak tool, with your intuition and your deeper awarenesses, which are very strong tools, but about which you know nothing intellectually. Many have said that there can be no link between the intellect and the intuition, or the heart. But, my friends, this is not so for all people know those things about which one has faith. All people are aware that it is possible to believe in love, in hope, in giving, in healing. All people, even the most materialistic, my friends, are aware of the legitimacy and the worth of these unseen powers. Their faith may be greatly diminished, but the words, concepts and the possibility of faith are meaningful. Ask yourself what things you have faith in; what things are of worth to you. And allow those things to expand as you bring them into your conscious, intellectual awareness. First, through meditation and then through the actions given to others in joy.
>
> We are attempting the transformation of beings through these speeches. We can do so very little, my friends. We can only urge you to meditate; possibly, inspire you through our descriptions of those things of which we have the greatest faith, in which we feel the greatest belief. In our vibration, these are not inspiring words, these are the sober truths. In our vibrations, my friends, they must come through the mists of the material illusion. They must be filtered through your words. And all we can hope is that through the magic of your imagination and your desire to seek the truth our words will inspire you to meditate.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: August 10, 1977](hhttps://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1977/0810)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1ov646m/hatonn_on_the_bridge_of_faith/).