---
title: Hatonn on Service and Polarity (1974)
layout: post
date: 2025-01-22
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

The title should give away the reason this is interesting to me: this is Hatonn in 1974 talking about "polarization", "service to others" and "service to oneself." The point being that these ideas were being worked out in conscious channeling already over five years before contact with those of Ra occurred. These are actually in my view some pretty sophisticated and novel concepts being articulated before Ra gave these terms their precision and full scope of meaning. We take this stuff as granted now; it was still being worked out in the 70s.

This is part of ther reason why I always encourage people to read Confederation channeling prior to Ra. It's important to see the role Ra plays in the development of this philosophy: not one of origination so much as focus, precision, and orientation. There were hundreds of monologues with fourth and fifth density contacts before sixth density contact was available, and sessions like this show how that groundwork was laid. It also helps us better see exactly what the sixth density brings in that is above and beyond lower density messages; we can start to see the real vibration involved in contrast.

> **I am Hatonn.** I am now with this instrument. As I saying, we request that you attempt at all times [to] concentrate your energy on those positive forces within your thinking in order that as you attempt to perform your service to the Creator, you may perform a true service and avoid infringing upon that very service by negativity. It is to be remembered, my friends, that service to others is service to oneself. Notice that we do not say that service to others is like unto service to oneself. There is no similarity between others and ourselves—there is identity. There is completion and unity. Therefore, that which is felt of a negative nature towards a sheep of the flock is felt towards oneself, and is felt towards the Creator. This enters the service which you [are] attempting to give to yourself and to the Creator through service to another and causes a blot or a stain upon the perfect service you would have performed. It must be remembered that each person is a completely free entity whose independence must in no way be shaken and yet whose identity remains one with you.
> 
> It is necessary to walk with the feet of each whom you wish to serve. It is necessary to look through this man’s eyes. And it is necessary to observe precisely what this person is observing. At that time, my friends, you are capable of accepting this person’s oneness with you on an intellectual [inaudible] level. On the level of [inaudible] spirituality there is no need for such detailed understanding. To be one with another person, with a planet, with a rock, with a tree, or with a star, it would all be equally possible. But, you wish your service and so we speak to you upon the identification of yourself with the person whom you serve.
> 
> The question then, my friends, is how to understand in a true and final way the identity between yourself and each one whom you serve. There is no intellectual way to do this, my friends. Within the holy work which [was] recorded following the actions of the master known to you as Jesus lies very revealing passages upon this subject. The master known to you as Jesus said that any [one] who fed a hungry man or clothed a naked one, or visited those in prison or helped the widows and orphans had done this for this master’s sake. For even as they had done this to the least of his brothers, they had done it unto him.
> 
> We are aware that is almost impossible for the human mind while entrapped in the chemical illusion to truly believe that other men are identical to yourself. Thus, it is far more possible through faith that you may begin to understand that each man whom you wish to serve is the Creator. In a higher source, you and they can merge and it is this seed which we suggest that you develop in your understanding. We will have great need of your understanding in the days to come. It is important that you do not deal in any negative way with those who would request answers to questions. Therefore, we hope that you will take these thoughts and allow them to grow as you meditate.
>
> Negativity is a type of power. It has many, many manifestations. Those religions which you know of as Oriental or Eastern personify these negative impulses in many beautiful shapes of gods and goddesses. While you who are dwelling within, as you would call it, Western culture, can think of negative manifestations in the terms of Satan and demons. Modern science with its intellectual explanations has derived a great multitude of [physiological] phrases and descriptions for these negative manifestations. All of these manifestations are indications that those who are aware of them are under the illusion that they are not one with the Creator. They are all expressions of separation and isolation. There is only one true positive method of polarization. It may go by many different names, but [you] may identify it because of its simple unity, that which is sought being union with the Creator. Under whatever name you may find this, you may be sure that within this path lies positivity.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: June 29, 1974](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1974/0629)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1i77c3u/hatonn_on_service_and_polarity_1974/).