---
title: Hatonn on Power
layout: post
date: 2025-09-05
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

Just realized this excerpt is from exactly 49 years ago today! Pretty cool it was my reading this morning.

A few things to point out about this excerpt. I could have included the opening remarks channeled by B, but it would have been too long. Note that B's message almost seemed to be going in a direction that indicated the accumulation of knowledge, while an infinite task, was itself the project. Then the connection fizzled out, and Carla's message dialed it in. I've definitely seen this happen with multi-instrument channeling sessions more than once, and this is a good example of the phenomenon. What one instrument picks up on may not have the full intention attached to it, but it triggers the appropriate context in the next instrument. This is how a contact can play the circle's instruments like an orchestra, using the tuba when appropriate and the piccolo when that's the right sound. The point is the communication of the information and inspiration, not necessarily the performance of a given instrument. Just goes to show you that even in distortion we serve.

Note also the connection between the concept of _power_ and the concept of _knowledge_. Understanding is not part of this; understanding is a more complete awareness of things, not the piecemeal, structured nexus of different facts and knowledge. Meditation is the antidote, it seems, to the need to master the illusion; with a connection to our higher selves and the spirit complex made "straight" and regular through inward work, we become capable of intelligence that isn't a result of our self-directed accumulation of knowledge and wisdom. We put our mind/body/spirit complexes in order, and the rest tends to work itself out.

Those of Hatonn also make some interesting remarks about power in this regard very similar to some of their remarks given [recently](https://har.center/2025-08-15/1/hatonn-on-blending-energies). On the one hand, there really cannot be such a thing as power if there's no other thing outside of unity upon which to act. On the other hand, they place this understandig in a context in which you have straightened up the self -- and how might that straightening occur without the higher self being subject and the manifest self serving as the object? In this paradox I think we see the role that the melting love influence plays, where we have the creativity to interpret the illusion in ways that empower us to act as well as in ways that demand passivity and stillness. Both are not only appropriate in the illusion, but literally different sides of the same exact coin, it would seem.

> I am with this instrument and I greet you once again in love and light. As I was saying, my friends, to attain mastery on the physical planet a great deal—-sometimes it may seem an infinite amount—-of knowledge must be gained. It is, of course, an aspect of your physical illusion that it does seem as though a certain quantity of intellectual information will constitute the knowledge that you do need to attain understanding.
>
> We speak to you tonight to attempt to correct this impression. Yes, my friends, you are on the path, but, my friends, you are the path. You are that which the Creator may flow through. It is written in your holy works that the one known as John the Baptist cried in the wilderness, “Make straight the way of the Lord.” My friends, each of you [inaudible] of chaotic thoughts and actions and being, memories and hopes. And your one goal, to attain understanding, is to make a pathway, as straight way, for that Creator, love, to flow through. You will never organize that which you call your self, for your physical self is in itself and of itself an unruly thing. It was born and it will die and in your physical life you will adhere to this process, whether you wish to or not, for this is the correct nature of the physical being.
>
> Yet within you, my friends, there is a pathway, and as you meditate, you may seek and find it, and open yourself to it, and lo, the crooked will become straight and the uncrossable mountains of your life will become as plains.
>
> You see, my friends, in our approach to knowledge we assume that that which you are seeking, you are. For that which you may be seeking, though it may seem to be, as we said, an infinite amount of knowledge, it is in fact a truth of such total simplicity, that you, sitting there now, embody it totally. A truth so simple that many, many of your kind have missed it and will continue to miss it. This truth is that all things are one. That all is love. Its understanding is the straight way.
>
> It also helps, my friends, as you attempt to bring the straight path into your daily experience, to realize that in truth you are not living in a universe which is composed of more than one thing, and that therefore there is no such thing as power. As you attempt to bring the straight way into your chaotic existence, you can easily perceive those things with which you are having trouble as being powers against you, or as having power against you, and you can see yourself as needing a power to overcome them.
>
> But, my friends, nothing has power. For instance, my friends, you may think that in healings the spirit overcomes the power of disease, and yet, my friends, if there were a power to disease, then there would not be a possibility of its being healed. Yet sometimes disease has power and sometimes it does not. In truth, the consciousness of love is not power. It is simply the understanding that there to no power, but that all is one. Instead of reckoning from the standpoint of power against power, attempt to keep in your consciousness the truth that there is no power, that there is only love, so that you see those things that are difficult for you as a type of love which you may understand if you contemplate it, and which you can love in return. In this way, the currents of that creative love are set up. And since you do not recognize the illusory power of your difficulties, they do indeed begin to disperse, sometimes in very unexpected ways. Sometimes you find that a situation which you felt had power against you may well stay just as it was before, yet in your consciousness you now understand that there is no power in that situation, but only love. And this understanding transforms your experience. Many things occur by interpretation only, within your mind, so that if love can be applied and the idea of power removed, you can see your interpretation in a new light, and the problem disappears.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: September 5, 1976](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1976/0905)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1n9a236/hatonn_on_power/).