---
title: Hatonn on the Interference of the Intellect
layout: post
date: 2025-10-14
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

The core takeaway from this passage is to understand the counter-intellectual nature of the Confederation's message, I believe. When we begin to make a relationship to this philosophy from our waking personality, we're in serious trouble, because we are forming a partnership that cannot reliably benefit the personality. Meditation is a way that we key into the deeper nature of our identity and form the relationship at _that level_, with the waking personality slowly and delicately trained to be a servant of that alliance in which it has no obvious and direct interest. Like the fool archetype, the personality must make a completely illogical and ridiculously stupid leap of faith in a sacrifice to that which is greater than it. Only then does the personality, thusly disciplined and refined, begin to catch some glimmers of the underlying process of spiritual evolution that cannot _possibly_ make sense to it.

To me, part of the story of spiritual evolution in third density is learning how we're living multiple lives at once at different levels of awareness. We're living in (a) metaphysical world(s) _and_ a physical world. Through one life we're having effects in multiple planes.

<!-- more -->

To dissociate is to block out one tunnel of reality for another; I'm suggesting a kind of "holosociation" where we are embracing multiple levels of agency within a single stream of conscious agency. We're in the workaday world, symbolically demonstrating the reality of a deeper understanding that cannot ground itself in our experience without our investment. This is how we provide a beachhead for the dawning fourth density consciousness: by living the metaphysical, philosophical principles more fully in this world in spite of it not necessarily being reinforced in this world. We are paying attention to a feedback loop coming from without, a feedback loop in which the spirit complex participates more and more.

> And what is this message that we have come to give you, my friends? It is a simple message. We have one Creator and we are that Creator. We have been created by love and we are love. In all things that are apparently so different there is an underlying unity and that unity is love. In all experiences that are so difficult there is an underlying understanding that unifies the disparity and that underlying essence is love. At your beginning and at your ending is love. Instinctively, those upon your surface know this and from this inner instinct has come many, many of what you would call religions and philosophies. And yet, due to those elements which are of an illusionary nature, the information becomes complicated. Distinctions and differences begin to be made between brothers and between understanding. And the unity is lost.
> 
> Again and again this has happened among your peoples. That which is begun in total love and unity is divided and set against itself by the intellectual understandings of men.
> 
> The nature of the illusion which you call physical existence is such that the intellect will, by its very nature, analyze, criticize, discern each experience with which it comes in contact. Therefore, that which you perceive with your intellect, that which you touch with your physical fingers, will forever seem to you to be of a certain type and therefore not of a more general type. This and that and not love.
> 
> It is for this reason that we have so often said to this group that the most important thing that we can say to you is that you must form a habit of meditation. It is only when you allow your intellectual mind to become quieted so that your inner self may begin to function that you may begin to realize your connection with the infinite love of the Creator. That you may begin to feel that love flowing through you and making a mind of unity between you and your brothers, be they your friends, your enemies or even total strangers. In meditation you may begin to feel that strength of that unity. You may begin to feel your own power as a perfect child of the Creator. Only in meditation can you find these things, for they are not apparent in your waking consciousness.
>
> So often among your peoples it is assumed that in order to believe, shall we say, in order to belong to the company of the faithful, as you might put it, it is necessary to have an experience which is of a so-called emotional nature. We say to you, with or without emotions, with or without what we would call possibly insincere thrills, your birthright, not a matter of faith but of reality, is to be a child of the Creator. It is a simple thing, not necessary to be believed but to be experienced. This is another reason that meditation is important. To listen to many leaders within your so-called spiritual community, one would begin to believe it is necessary to go through various experiences or to believe certain things and to accept certain things in order to come into a so-called right relationship with one’s Creator. Yet, the true spiritual fact is not one way or another. It is yours, completely, individually. You in silence, over a period of time, will form your own understanding of the Creator and His link with you, and your ability to help your brother through that link. There is no need for word or thought if you but meditate on a regular basis. It is not obvious immediately but the cumulative effect begins to seep into your waking existence as you find that you have those knowledges that you seek given unto you in a simple manner, springing from your own mind as needed.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: October 31, 1976](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1976/1031)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1o6gmsi/hatonn_on_the_interference_of_the_intellect/).