---
title: Latuii on Seeing Other Selves as the Creator
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
  - Topics/Other Selves
  - Topics/Law and Justice
  - Topics/Love
  - Contacts/Latuii
---

Following up on [yesterday's post](/blog/2026/03/23/latuii-on-law/), here's the other part that directly followed what I quoted. It's awkward to connect because, initially, Latuii seems to deviate from the subject of law and justice into person-to-person relations. But then they bring it back to law towards the end which means the bifurcation I performed is a little messy. I hope I can trust that y'all are following along!

In fact, this excerpt is a great example of how concepts of law, duty, and responsibility go hand in hand not simply with our social constructs but also with our personal conduct and thinking. To see each we meet as literally the Creator is to make much of our hand-wringing about what is just and proper totally obsolete. Even the Ayatollah (what a timely mention) gets Creator status! And up and down the chain of consciousness, we direct love and acceptance to each link. The cadence of phenomena we apprehend in our daily lives simply unfolds the recipients of that love; it is not stuff happening _to_ us so much as opportunities provided to invest a bit more meainingfully in our co-Creatorship.

<!-- more -->

And in this session we link up this Law of Love with the "dropping of seeds" metaphor. It all goes together so perfectly: to move orthogonally through the yellow ray matrix of law, custom, and normative values to "make a hole" for love to get through. This is how service interacts with the mundane matters of our lives to provide opportuntiies for the ingress of a higher vibration, but not through some fancy, esoteric manuever. 

At some point start when we start looking at our lives and the phenomena we encounter this way, we begin to let material, yellow ray life simply run itself. We become more and more capable of playing chords across our 7-note system of centers [as Q'uo relates](https://har.center/2026-02-18/richmond/ccp/020/quo-on-planetary-transformation/) instead of just chasing the lessons of the lower centers. Life becomes a creative piece of art, a portrait of love rendered by the Creator down through the logoic chain to the social memory complex that each interaction like this either affirms or degrades.

> If you cannot deal with a person because of his differences from you, intellectually, morally, spiritually or simply by appearance or way of speaking, then you have not drawn from your meditation the deeper understanding that all men are the same. That they are all on a path towards the Creator. Some are going at a fast rate of speed, some at a slow rate of speed. Some seem to be taking a vacation from the journey to the Creator or even taking side trips in which they are getting farther away from the love of the Creator. But, my friends, if you take the long view you must realize that it does not matter because if you have eternity in which to develop each soul, and if you understand the inevitability of the progress or, shall we say, the eventual progress of each soul, then you know that each person is either progressing along a spiritual path now or that he will do so in the future. It is this portion of the personality of each being that you meet that must be of importance to you in your dealings with him.
> 
> If you are unable to tolerate a person, as understandable as it may be, you must still continue to meditate until you can see that person as the Creator, for that is the law of love. You have upon your planet many who do not understand nor wish to seek the law of love, and it is indeed hard to imagine being able to love some of these people. We would name, for instance, Adolf Hitler, whom it would be difficult to see as a child of the Creator. Yet, my friends, this man is a child of the Creator and this soul, although he has a long, long journey, will in the end become a spiritualized and seeking being. Other political figures of your time, such as the entity this instrument calls the Ayatollah of Iran, seem to be totally lost in totally foolish and shameful acts. But we say to you, my friends, you must see each person as part of the Creator. It is only in doing this that you free yourself to have a right relationship with each person that you meet. These are extreme examples, of course, but in your daily life you meet so many whom you could inspire because of the joy in your heart and your acceptance of them without judgment. They would then wish to know what you had that made you different, my friends. And you would have dropped a seed of love; whether it fall on stony ground or on fertile soil, your service would have been accomplished.
> 
> Thus we say to you, know the law of love and understand that it supersedes the laws of mankind. And if you can apply the law of love in any situation, do not hesitate to relax your grip upon the laws of men. For more important than your understanding of the wrongness of others’ actions, or even your own, is the understanding that forgiveness is the divine act. And it is within your own heart, through the grace and power of love, that you may forgive yourself and others when you find yourself or the people in error.
> 
> How much you people desire to be of service to each other! We appreciate that, my friends, for we wish to be of service to you also. But we are aware that we can only do just so much, and then we must relax and let our thoughts drift towards the golden love and light of the infinite Creator. What we can give you, we do! If we can give you an inspiration, if we can give you a piece of joy from the feelings that we give you in meditation with us, if we can encourage you to meditate in any form whatsoever on a daily basis, we are very pleased. This is what we are here to do. If we fail, we simply wait until we can try again. And we hope that you can develop that kind of patience and understanding of your fellow man.
> 
> Life, you see my friends, is truly a humorous condition. If you could look at your life as though it were an old time silent movie with all of the gestures exaggerated and subtitles under each episode, you would then be able to see your life’s dream in its true form. It is a movie on your particular screen for your particular understanding and entertainment. You can be an actor, totally lost in the drama of your existence, or you can also be in the audience watching the drama, understanding what there is to understand in each situation and finding the comedy and the laughter that is inherent in the ridiculous assumption that a soul could take on a heavy chemical body and move about and find the importance of things like money, possessions, homes and all of the trappings of your society, when the only important things are love, compassion and service to others. Can you not find the humor of your own thoughts? When you find your mind too much with your worldly goods and ideas, step back, my friends, and watch the action as though it were on a movie screen, have a good laugh and feel refreshed in the knowledge that you are beginning to truly understand the nature of your existence on planet Earth.

\- [Latuii via Rueckert: September 6, 1979](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1979/0906)