---
title: Soltec on Time
layout: post
date: 2026-06-06
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
---

Here's another Solar Cross Foundation session contemporary to the Louisville channeling we usually cover. It's deceptively deep and gives some clues, I think, about what they mean by the thought techniques they label, "Tensor Concepts," although it's not going to clear anything up by a long shot. And please take my remarks with a grain of salt; I'm going to use this session to talk about things I'm interested in, but I hope it gives you some kind of route of ingress into your own wonder and mystery.

What are time and space? What _are_ those media? They situate the objects of percpetion, the things that make subjectivity possible. No space, no particularity of things; no time, no change and transformation. We have the notion of consciousness as distinct from physical reality, acting upon it and observing it in a constant feedback loop. But examine your thinking: when you really get down to it, do you have discrete, different thoughts usually? Or they kind of flow into each other and _then you narrativize them to lend them distinction?_ 

<!-- more -->

Perhaps language is a sort of space/time projection of undifferentiated time/space activity --- we call it "thinking" because we have no other context to describe activity without spatial change metered by time, but it's not an _activity per se_ --- into a world of dimensionality, of separation and interaction and service, a world where we appear not to be able to simply think things into being but are constantly catching up to the ideal goals we mentate. A world where certain phemonena "cause" and make necessary other phenomena, even though the more we break down that relationship the more the obtusely the quantum world frustrates our narratives of "what happened."

These are the kinds of insights we may encounter when we meditate. We break down the subject/object dichotomy not by abolishing thought so much as relaxing attention, the focusing capacity of thought to single out objects. And we find that we, the subjects, kind of lose our definition in the process. This demonstrates better than Ra ever could how all at least is plausibly one because it shows how apperception --- the way we take our sense signals and turn them into an intelligible model of an outside world --- is fundamentally a _creative act by a co-Creator_. 

All of this meandering armchair philosophy is designed to contextualize Soltec's remarks about the relationship between how we think and what we experience. It seems entirely possible that our beliefs in a certain kind of world out there stunt our full thinking abilities. What is the objective physical world? It's just the apperception we all agree on, create a social energetic construct that seems distinct from individuals. But it's not; it's literally the thing that creates the fiction of individuality in the first place. 

I'm hoping that as we move forward with Miller's group, we'll get more insights into specific exercises we can do to hone our thinking to make use of these Tensor Concepts. I don't read ahead, so I'm on this journey with you, so if you feel like reading _Star Wards_ along with me or perusing the library of audio recordings, let me know and let's put our heads together. We can chuckle at the archaic and overserious tone while separating the wheat from the chaff. I'm still getting used to these unique Solar Cross contacts like "Soltec" too, so if you're reading along we can make sense of it all together.

> Greetings in the "Light" of Our Radiant One. I am Soltec. My thoughts this (your) evening will be somewhat brief. But in them, I would submit for your consideration some material dealing with the subject of time. I would greatly appreciate your thoughts concerning this and the outcome of your evaluation, since time is a thing to be reckoned with and is an integral part of the Tensor Concepts. Perhaps I am not being too premature in submitting, let us say, some elementary material at this time.
> 
> First, I would present for your consideration a concept that I wish you to evaluate. When one speaks of time, one speaks always with the necessity of a point of reference. In order to establish one's location in time, we must over-simplify the subject and divide it into three major classifications -- the past, the present and the future. But what of another aspect of time, which we shall call tangential time? In order for you to visualize this, I shall somewhat over-simplify this new aspect.
> 
> All of you have seen and are aware of what a strip of motion picture film looks like. With each scene or frame of such a film representing a small interval of time, it is only when this film is seen with the frames passing at a rapid rate before your line of vision, that movement becomes apparent in the subject material contained in these scenes. If one were to examine each individual frame sequentially, one would not be able to see, unless one was equipped with an acute form of eyesight and memory retention, the small differences between each frame if they were of a like subject. Only by accelerating the rate at which each frame passes your point of vision does the movement in each become apparent. And yet, my brothers, each of the individual frames represent a distinct segment of time. This you might consider as the linear type of time which most of your thinking and knowledge is concerned with. But when we deal with tangential time, what happens if we lay another strip of your motion picture film, concerning the same identical photographic material and the same identical scenes, over the top of the first film and then slide the one in the upper position one or two frames ahead so that scene one of your upper film is now placed over scene three of the lower film.
> 
> I would let you think for a few moments of what we have done with the interval of time represented in the upper film. Since we are speaking of tangential time, it is apparent that we are talking about sequences of time that are tangent to your linear concept of time, but we are talking as well of a displacement in time. As the upper strip of film of scene one is moved either forwards or backwards over the identical scene in the lower film, what have we accomplished? And now, to add to your thinking about this, let us add several more strips of film, one on top of the other, and have varying degrees of movement, forwards or backwards, from the reference point which we shall call "the now." I would ask you to consider the relationships that exist physically between these segments of time.
> 
> It is very important that we attempt to bring into your awareness some new thoughts and ways of thinking of time. It is one of the principal factors that is employed in many of the uses of your mental faculties, such as that you term "teleportation" or that which you call "clairvoyance" and so on. In each of these instances, what is happening to that which is called "time" and its relationships to "the now"? What is happening to the relationships between the object "now" and the object in "a different location"? This need not become an overly complex discussion on your parts. You may simplify it in any manner which is suitable to help your understanding.
> 
> I believe you will find this little introduction to a different way of thinking of some interest. In future of our communications, we will of course be presenting some of the basic Tensor Concept material for your study. In this study, you have the responsibility of going over this material, looking for any ambiguities in the language. This means that you must exercise a certain amount of thought in detecting whether the meanings are clear, concise and understandable.
> 
> I will close for now. I am Soltec. Adonai.

\- [Soltec via Miller: August 21, 1974](https://github.com/oswg/akasha/blob/main/scf/misc/1974-08-21_scf_misc_003.md)