---
title: "Hatonn on Observing the Love in the Moment"
layout: post
date: 2026-06-23
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
---

Here's another precursor to Ra, specifically [their exercise](https://www.lawofone.info/s/10#14) to "find the love in the moment":

> The moment contains love. That is the lesson/goal of this illusion or density. The exercise is to consciously seek that love in awareness and understanding distortions. 

Here Hatonn seems to expand extremely helpfully on this before it was an exercise at all. This love that we are seeking is both within us and out there, because those two directions are one and the same. It's less about the direction of seeking, it seems to me, and more about a certain personal responsibility we take for the search's prosecution. This requires one, I would think, to [_internalize_ the polarity](https://www.lawofone.info/s/5#2) we keep discovering in our activities, a polarity that announces itself so provocatively and alarmingly that it is ignored only with the greatest third density conscious effort. It's not just an intellectual exercise; it cannot be described, only experienced, and therefore in embracing that experience one is effectively --- and this is extremely important --- _taking responsibility for something that isn't your fault, something that isn't what you deserve or have control over at all_.

<!-- more -->

How can you take responsibility for something you cannot control or change? That is the paradox over co-Creatorship: on the one hand, you can only make the slightest bit of sense of it as an agent by expanding your identity. On the other hand, the "doing" is something that happens _to_ you because it flows _through_ you. By being, you do. This is so difficult to reconcile with the ego personality, which is why I think it was a big improvement for Ra to describe this as an exercise to be practiced rather than some kind of ethos to be embraced as a reader or listener to a session.

> And what is that subject of which we speak, my friends? What is that strange and much sought after thing that is called love among your peoples? It is not what you think it is, my friends. We ask you to visualize in your mind’s eye an individual whom you admire, an individual whom you would be like. What is the nature of this individual, my friends? What in this individual inspires you in this admiration? The answer is something different in each person’s experience. But we suggest that the one thing that there is in common is that people who are loved and admired are themselves the open channels for that which is truly love. Not love as it is known among your people. Not something that is done or said or spoken or thought. But something that is.
> 
> There are some people that you know that have the gift of being. And whoever they are, and whoever type of being that they show, they show it in such a way that the love of the Creator shines through. And they become windows in which is reflected the fire of love. Yes, my friends, love is a very intense fire. Love is that which you experience, when you experience all that you experience. You yourself are love. All that you experience is love. The creation is a creation of love, love impressed upon waves of light in many, infinitely many, combinations giving the universes infinite densities, and giving the entities that dwell in those universes their infinite varieties. But all, my friends, all are varieties of love. Who are you, my friends? What variety of love have you experienced this particular day? What love did you see today? What love showed through you today? We ask you these questions.
> 
> We ask you these questions because there is a point in your seeking at which these questions will become very, very important. And that is the point at which you decide that you want to take responsibility for yourself. Your life in this particular experience is short. And each experience that you have is fleeting. And if you know that each experience is one of love, you then, my friends, are in command over that experience. You know what to look for. You know what you are seeking. You are seeking to understand the love that created the observer in yourself that is observing the experience. And you are seeking through that observer to find the love in your experience. You are love and you are waiting to be reflected.
> 
> When you see that love distorted around you, when you see anger, when you see global anger, or when you see personal anger, when you see fear, trepidation, unhappiness, all of the negative emotions, be they small or great, if you are looking with the knowledge that all things are love then you can see that all these things are distortions of a basic vibration of love. And that which is unlovely you can have compassion for. And that which is difficult you can surround with your own desire to give comfort and rest to those things around you which need comfort and rest. You cannot do this from the stores of your own love, for they are but limited, my friends. You can only do this when you make contact with the source of all that is. We are speaking of that one experience which is the source of all experience, that one love which is the source of all love, that one Thought which is the source of you and this channel and we ourselves as we speak through this channel.
> 
> Seek the Creator, my friends, in meditation. For it is the Creator’s love that is infinite and can carry you through all those experiences of your days, giving you the sweet and precious understanding of the truth, the fine and lovely contentment that only love can bring, and the happiness that the divine laughter of joy in love will produce. We speak to you from a place which you would call the kingdom of heaven, for it is a place where love is visible. We wish that you could join us here. And you can join us in thought. And that is why we ask you to call upon us whenever you might be ready. For we would gladly assist you with our conditioning wave so that you will find it easy to meditate.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: February 3, 1980](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1980/0203)