---
title: "Hatonn on Responsibility and Polarization"
layout: post
date: 2026-07-14
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
---

Well I'm back after a bit of a break. In addressing this session I've omitted an inital paragraph about immenent conflict and psychotronic weapons. I never quite know what to make of these reports on geostrategic conditions from the Confederation. Even if they're accurate, how can they be useful to folks like us? These bulletins about the designs of major powers do not continue throughout the archive, but when they show up it's difficult not to read fear in them, so I don't like to emphasize them in my research. I'd like to think Latuii is cleverly pivoting the group's anxious calling for this transient information into the wider point about polarity and the law of responsibility. But could it be that the situation in the early 1980s was so critical at that moment that the prayers of a few folks meditating in Louisville could make the difference? 

In any case, that is the "conflict" those of Latuii refer to  at the beginning of the excerpt. They then articulate key concepts of third density polarization and the sinkhole of indifference in which our planet is largely stuck. I think it's interesting that they describe both polarities as about love; I suppose it's just a matter of what kind of love. The implications of that love for our planet are sadly being resisted strongly by the folks here. To "see with eyes of love" would just be perhaps a specific recognition of opportunity to call that love out to others within the illusion and maybe help awaken them.

<!-- more -->

They then address the law of responsibility and the seeker's ability to use the illusion's catalyst for growth by recognizing the mechanism. It's interesting: if we were "seeing with eyes of love," --- i.e. if we were polarizing one way or the other sufficiently --- I feel like Latuii is implying that we would more easily recognize these "quizzes" such that we could consciously work with them _as_ catalyst instead of as problems that we later realize were lessons. And this is something occuring not simply in our individual evolutions, but for all of us as a planet: our inability to see through the illusion and recognize the primacy of the evolutionary. Perhaps this perspective helps seekers not feel trapped by the limitations of a given moment in history.

> We do not wish to stay the conflict forever, if that is the will of your peoples, but we wish to send as much love as possible to your leaders of all nations, of all beliefs, and of all polarities, in the hopes that we can for just a little while longer continue to offer the pathways of observation, convocation and evolution to your peoples. We are trying to offer to your peoples—those who wish to seek—an understanding of the true nature of observation. For to see with eyes of love is to see for the first time that which is real. For those few sheep among your peoples who wish to be saved, and who seek a group of like-minded people, we offer them the principle of convocation and give them the knowledge that they may find such groups and raise their voices as one in their desire to know the truth. And above all, we find each moment in which we can speak to your peoples of evolution an infinitely precious moment, because, although your peoples cannot go backwards, they can certainly drag their heels. And the majority of your peoples have dug in their heels and are resisting with a great deal of effort the relentless march of evolution towards the light.
> 
> Yes, my friends, you can resist. There are a few planets who have resisted so completely that there is no light. But evolution is inevitable, even upon such lost planets. Yours is just in the middle, my friends. There are not so many who would be evil, but my friends, there are not so many who would be good. The great majority of your peoples would be neither good nor evil, but do not seem to have a predisposition to either. Hence, they are as pawns in a game which they know not of.
> 
> You, my friends, have begun to understand the game, and have begun to aid in your own evolution by understanding the value of being polarized toward love. This is not an easy polarization and that teacher named Jesus would never have promised that it was easy. For he said, “If you would be my disciple, take up your cross and follow me.” Did he mean, my friends, that all of you must go through life in some kind of terrible martyrdom, suffering in order to be wholesome? No, my friends. Your teacher laughed at weddings and changed water into wine so that his friends might make merry and rejoice. He had a very deep sense of humor and rarely felt sorry for himself. He knew the ways of love and he knew that the path involved is a stony path. The path of evolution is a rocky path.
> 
> The reason for this is very simple, my friends. Say that you are not aware of the process of evolution. You are therefore not responsible for your lessons. You react in a completely instinctual manor and through the catalyst of many, many lifetimes’ experience you begin very slowly to develop. You may have a hard life, but the aspect of learning lessons will not seem a great part of it. However, when this student takes on the responsibility of the path towards truth, he will be given small quizzes along the way.
> 
> Now, everyone is given these quizzes, but most do not recognize them. The student recognizes them, and therefore has the responsibility for meeting them. If you are having difficulty loving an enemy, you will be faced with that problem until you have conquered it. If you have trouble with one enemy, that enemy may go away, but you will have another. If you are having trouble with some addiction either in thought, in action, or in temperance, the source of that addiction may go away but you will be challenged again. Each time that you have the choice between anger or some other negative emotion and calm acceptance and creative understanding and you choose the release of anger or some other negative emotion, you know—those of you who are on the path—that you must do it again, you have made an error, and that it will meet you, most surely.
> 
> Your entire planet, as a planetary consciousness, has not yet reached the level of conscious development. It is simply reacting as it has reacted for many thousands of years in a warlike and somewhat negative fashion.

\- [Latuii via Rueckert: May 4, 1980](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1980/0504)