---
title: Hatonn on the Ongoing Legacy of Planetary Work
layout: post
date: 2026-05-29
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
---

Apologies for the long break; I just needed it. I've had a very hard time tracking down work, but now I'm starting a new job soon and want to get all elements of my seeking and work back on track. Luckily where I dropped off gives a nice, juicy session to share with you!

In this session you see another glimpse at the counter-individualist orientation of those hailing from these social memory complexes: an assurance that while we hold tremendous responsibility for our personal development, the planet's development is a shared responsibility. That both means that we have a duty as individual mind/body/spirit complexes in incarnation, but that it's _not all on our individual shoulders alone_. Given the ambiguity around the exact advent of harvest, we simply do our best to our little part, confident that it's the best we can do from the position in our evolution we occupy.

<!-- more -->

The session starts off with some commentary on Carla's apparent affinity for Moses, with whom she feels cameraderie as a fellow prophet. Moses, too, left unfinished work after his passing into larger life, and it is likely that we all will. This illustrates the paradox of service in third density: that we are attempting to, as Charles Eisenstein once said, become capable of things we cannot _make_ happen. How can we do that? By becoming more than who we are, reaching towards our collective agency little by little, building trust slowly along the way.

It may seem like the collective does little but stand in the way of individual genius, yet it's precisely the opposite. Everything we've accomplished as humans has come from this networking, cooperative ability in better or worse ways; no one person's accomplishment could have amounted to anything that we value as a society solely as a result of their individual effort with no contribution from others at all (sorry, Ayn Rand). The collective is not simply the means of accomplishment; it is the salvation of the individual's total commitment to the Creator as each of us learn to become Its instrument and discover the miracle of social memory on personal terms. 

As we become instruments, our individual instruments fit together into a more and more complex, nuanced, and powerful instrument. This is after all how Hatonn is able to reach and inspire us: through the amalgamation of individual seeking into a planetary laser of love that can be trained on a third density planet in need. Let us follow them into fourth density!


> You have tried through many incarnations to be of service to the people of this planet. It was hoped very much by you before you began this incarnation that this would be the incarnation in which you succeeded in that plan. In other words, my friend, you, like Moses, have been attempting to lead your people through a desert toward a promised land of love and light, which you can see clearly in a distance and know as a reality, but which those around you either doubt or disclaim completely.
> 
> And now, my friends, you find yourselves moving through the incarnation, giving of yourself to the best of your ability and to the best of your judgment finding yourself still in the desert. We can only say to you, my friends, that your sacrifice has not been in vain nor will it ever have been for nothing. Even if you do not lead your people into the promised land; even if, as some have rather crudely put it, you cannot save your planet, you have shown by your life and by your works to the best of your ability that love and the light that awaits those who praise the truth of the Creator’s love.
> 
> Remember that you are not alone in this great effort to heal a planet and its millions and millions of souls. What you have done prepares the way, at the very least, for another generation of those who seek the promised land, as long as your gaze is steady, as long as you know the reality of the eventual goal. The fact that you cannot yourself bring the planet with you to the completion of that goal should not sorrow you, for you must realize that the free will of each soul is supreme. What you must realize for your own sanity is summed up in your holy works, in the parable of Moses and the burning bush. The bush was burned, and yet it was not consumed, and out of the bush a voice addressed the one known as Moses, there in the desert as he stood, foot-weary and dusty and helpless.
> 
> “Take off your shoes,” said the voice, “for that place whereon you stand is holy ground.” You cannot bring people to an understanding. You can only bring yourself to people. And if you have the realization that you are constantly in the holy tabernacle, dwelling in serenity and intimacy with the Creator, which is the spirit of love among men, then you will be able to bring that holiness ever so quietly into the atmosphere about you. We realize that you do not consider yourselves to be saints, that you could not possibly be holy, we realize all this. We can see your hearts and that you quake with the sadness of all of your indiscretions, heated words, wrong feelings, actions which you considered indiscreet and actions which you fear may be indiscreet in the future. But we say to you, my friends, we are not speaking here of the human personality. For there is a level beneath the human personality in which true sainthood and true holiness abides. You do not so much need to tame your human personality as to learn to discard it, to understand the shallowness of its emotions, to understand that as the bedrock of your character lies that with which you came into this solar system, and that which the council of Saturn passed. Yes, my friends, compared to those who dwell upon this planet from a previous age, you are indeed saints, subconsciously.
> 
> The longer you spend in meditation the more you will begin to feel comfortable with the fact, not to be proud but only to be able to manifest it in your life by feeling the presence and the power of the Creator Who is with you; no matter how the emotions of your daily life may turn about you; no matter how distracted you may become by the petty concerns of petty people. Yet, you have that to fall back on which they may not, and it is that which makes you a shepherd and it is the lack of that which makes them the sheep. And thus your relationship defined. You will recognize other shepherds when you see them. For you will hear in them the world weariness and yet the total sweetness that comes with the subconscious knowledge that this is truly not reality for you but merely an illusion that you have selected in order to do a job.
> 
> We are aware that each of those in your little band has become increasingly desirous of bringing, shall we say, to a head, the business of setting the planet aright. We wish, my friends, that we could give you the personal guarantee of success that you would so like to hear. But you have a planet that’s moving rapidly and completely into the new vibration, and its people are not. Its people are becoming more and more polarized, are desiring to stand upon ground which is not holy, are desiring to distract themselves from that which may be of depth and meaning to them, so that they will not have to think of the consequences of being unholy, unkind, ungenerous, unloving.
> 
> My friends, you love one another, and you truly try to love those with whom you come in contact. We can only ask that you dig a little deeper into your subconscious, into the knowledge with which you came into this vibration so many long years ago. You have the opportunity to remember the sweetness and the simplicity of constant contact with the oneness of all things. You merely doubt from time to time that these things are so, because you are lost in the wilderness where there are so few shepherds and so many sheep, and the herding of them is almost intolerable.
> 
> Therefore we say to you, be of good courage and do not think of goals but only of the mile which you are walking at this time. We do not know how long the wilderness lasts in terms of time. If it lasts past your lifetime, then you will have been a shepherd along the way. You will not be in at the finish, you will not see the end written across the skies. The movie will not be over for you when you leave this incarnation. This is of no concern to you.
> 
> Do not be concerned with your accomplishments. Be concerned only with the amount of time that you spend dealing with individuals upon the sturdy and heartfelt basis of the love of the Creator. Be concerned only with the analysis of your own thoughts, that you may reject those thoughts which are not helpful to your spiritual growth or to the growth of others. Most of all, allow your intuition to play the part in your life that it deserves. For with daily meditation, your intuition will point you in a direction that you ought to go. There will always be, to those who pray and meditate, a path that becomes obvious. It is not always what one would desire consciously, but when it becomes obvious, seize it and embrace it, for it is your next lesson. And by learning these lessons and learning them with love, you and your powerful personalities, well schooled in love, are raising the planetary consciousness to a goodly degree.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: September 13, 1979](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1979/0913)