---
title: "Latuii on the Being the Hero of the Movie"
layout: post
date: 2026-06-08
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
---
Here's another excerpt from the same session as yesterday. I cannot imagine why I skipped this session initially! It's got a lot of transient stuff, but also a lot of gold. The big takeaway is the first indications of the debilitating effect of nuclear weapons, another presaging of Ra's message. 

However, I wanted to call out Latuii's lighthearted remarks, as this metaphor of one's incarnation being like a movie comes up now and again in the archive. They also mention, for the first time I presume, the light touch, a concept that Ra will reiterate. This entire sentiment of the cartoon-like nature of our waking lives is not designed to undercut its vital role as the delivery of service to the planet. It's instead designed, in my view, to reinforce the true role of our waking conscious experiences in the total self that is _actually_ serving. 

<!-- more -->

By learning to be instruments of love, we release the need for the service flowing from us to make perfect sense and validate us as ego personalities. The forceps don't take credit for the surgery; they just do their part being what they are. This is the conundrum of being a sentient, conscious instrument: it requires our will to serve, but it doesn't require our cleverness to see the entire strategy of service. We simply play our part in a concerted creation, with faith that our Creator has a handle on things. 

Beyond that, we might learn to enjoy the little vignettes in life that delight! There is so many details in incarnation; we can learn to appreciate them as decoration, not essence. If we stay focused on our best co-Creator selves and tune into the love in the moment, that light touch will come naturally and we can remain engaged without letting it drag us reflexively into negativity.

> We are aware that things look a little down on planet Earth at this time. But, let us tell you that things do not look so bad from where we are. Because from where we are, you are only where you are for a moment. And in that moment you are working very hard. And after that moment you will play; and before that moment you will play; and what we would like you to do, my sister, is learn how to play during the moment in which you are working very hard.
> 
> We ask you simply to release all the burdens of your great responsibilities to the enjoyment of your distinguished feelings of positivity and happiness. Whatever burdens that you may carry, they will become weightless if you put them down. You do not have to carry them, you need only be the best person that you can be; love the Creator with all your heart and let your heart touch others in a spirit of love. If light is shining from your eyes, the light of the Creator, that is your entire responsibility.
> 
> You did not come into this world that the world might be entirely altered. You came into this world to display a talent. That talent is to show the love of the Creator. That talent is yours because you have studied and learned and loved through many lifetimes. That talent is yours instantaneously. The talent cannot be employed by worrying or [grief] or realizing with great grief the horrible plight of your planet. It is not that these things are not true. It is that your role in them is to love. No matter what may occur, your role will be to love. It is true that you came into this world to save it, for that was the desire that you had when you volunteered to come and that is true of those in this room.
> 
> It depends upon your definition of saving as to whether you have saved the world or not. You have surely made it a better place. You have raised the planetary consciousness through your lifetimes here. You have loved and remembered both the Creator and your mission. So we ask you to pick up your heels and be as loving as you really are.
> 
> When you find negativity in yourself, know that that is the world pressing in upon you and that it is not you. It is not what you came into this world with. That is not your personality. You may not be able to shrug it off, for you have had many years of training in your planetary society; and it is thriving on negative feelings all the time. But each time that you can, neutralize a negative feeling and replace it with a conscious love that comes from knowing who you are, what love is, and whence love comes. In each of those times, you have improved not only yourself but the climate of the planet itself.
> 
> We ask you to look upon these times as you would a movie. Say you have some inside information. Very well then, use it as such. Nudge somebody on the bus and say, “I told you so”; they won’t know what you mean. When the next tidal wave hits, when the next diplomat storms out in anger, you may nod your head knowingly for you have heard it here first. But it is meaningless, my friends, unless you understand it in terms of time.
> 
> Time is an illusion in which you are now taking part. And in this illusion of time you are completing a cycle and there are things which are going awry due to difficulties in the vibration of your peoples. And you will do what you can and you will love as best you can. And when it is over, you will look back upon it, and it will be a very interesting movie that you have enjoyed. And it will have lasted the normal movie time and you will have come out of this movie saying, “What did you think of that movie? That was an interesting movie. Did you like the ending? What did you think of the plot? How about the heroes? Did you like the costumes? “This is just how much this will mean to you when you reach reality, or shall we say, comparative reality. It will be in any event the reality of the spirit, as opposed to the reality of the flesh. Both of which are illusions, but one of which is more real and that is the spirit.
> 
> Thus, seek always to know who you are in spirit. Seek always to know the heart of the present which is love, and you will not be openly disturbed because your mission is taking a turn you did not expect. Flow with it. Watch the plot develop around you; and soon you would be talking about this movie, which has been your life and the life of those about you. We encourage you to be a good heroine in that movie, to be as wise as you can be, as loving as you can be, as analytical of your own faults and as confident of your own virtues as you can be. What more could you ask from a heroine, my sister?
> 
> We are all the heroes and heroines of our own motion pictures, when we have begun a lifetime in an illusion such as yours. Thus, let the movie be one which you will be glad to watch later. Now, you are an actor. But let yourself also be the observer, the director, that keeps your part on an even keel. You are indeed an agent of the Creator’s, for you are part of the Creator. And always remember that identity with the Creator and with His creation. Whatever the rest of the planet may be doing, you can be co-creator, yours can be the imagination and the love and the individuality that others may lack.
> 
> When the time comes you will be in the company of those who, like you, were attempting to be of help. And we will meet you then! We and our brothers of the Confederation and it will be a grand meeting, and we shall all laugh and rejoice together; for we will have been through quite a bit together. We will look for you there, my sister, in person. And you will see us as light, and we will see you as light. And in the meantime, we are with you in spirit as you deal day-by-day with your illusion. Do not become entrapped in that illusion, but remember always the original Thought of the Creator, which is love. You are a light being. You are not an earth being. Do not be trapped, my sister.
> 
> We ask each of you, pray your prayers; do your deeds. But do not be trapped by them. Act only upon your ideals, on your faith, and your love of the Creator in your heart. Let those things be your all in all. The rest of the world and all of its traps, let them go by. They do not cause you to laugh, they do not cause you great joy. But only what is in your heart can cause you to laugh and cause you to have great joy.
> 
> We are not saying that it is not right to have possessions, position, power. All these things are neutral, if in your heart you remember the Creator, and you love one another.
> 
> What will happen? We of Latuii do not know. We are enjoying the colors of your planet. We are watching them as they vacillate and change in the inner dimensions. Your planet is quite beautiful in these dimensions. And it is in these dimensions that we stay for the most part. Your group is one of the very few which we have spoken to. We thank you for that opportunity. And we urge you to always keep the light touch. Join us in the big belly laugh, for you have a very funny planet, a very silly planet, a very foolish planet. And sometimes, when you are sane and those about you are not, you have a very lonely laughter. But don’t forget to laugh even if you laugh alone. This is only a movie. Have a bite of popcorn and keep on. That is all we came to [tell] you, my sister. We are always with you, if you ask us, and we hope you can hear our laughter and our joy when you need it. We leave you all in the light of the infinite Creator and the love that created that light. We will now turn the meeting back to Hatonn. I am Latuii. Adonai.

\- [Latuii via Rueckert: September 18, 1979](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1979/0918)