---
title: "Monka on Two Kinds of Ignorance"
layout: post
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
---

As I settle back into this reading, I'm also working my way through the Solar Cross Foundation's _Star Wards_, attempting to find the thru lines from their Confederation channeling to L/L Research's contacts. We're now in 1974, the starting year of the L/L Research channeling archive, and one of the subjects they've been teasing are these "Tensor Concepts." This missive from those of Monka constitutes a preface to that subject. I'm hoping as the reading proceeds I'll be able to share more details about what they mean; I'm almost wondering if they might overlap with exercises Ra provided during their contact.

I've updated our transcript in the Akasha repository [here](https://github.com/oswg/akasha/blob/47fc58846cb312a87aba5d8ae090db8c6fcc0fae/scf/tensor-series/1974_scf_tensor-series_001/1974_scf_tensor-series_001.md) so you can read the full thing. It's a long one, but I recommend it -- especially if you need a boost in your faith at a low point in human society. Eventually I'd like to bring all their material into a more accessible form, but until I can figure out a way to do quality OCR transcription, it'll have to be done piecemeal.

<!-- more -->

These tensor concepts are offered as a way for "MAN" to accelerate their evolution through what at this point appears to be a disciplining of thought, which is an extremely similar subject of Hatonn's around that time in Louisville. Monka, however, seems to put a much finer point on the use of the mind complex, not simply for the abilities they convey but also for the clarity and context they will provide humans about their life purpose.

Contrasting our brutal past with the promise of our future, they land upon the subject of humans' ignorance. In ignorance man possess learning and growth in potentiation, and it is a necessary phase of development. They contrast this with the humans distract themselves from their potential, concentrating on domination, material indulgence, and wordly glory in ignorance of the loftier purposes for which their own minds are the very evidence. This situates their contact with the Solar Cross circle: to unlock this potential in those who will inspire others, helping to advance the planet at a faster clip.

> In your world today there are two basic kinds of ignorance: Simple and Complex. Simple ignorance is merely a lack of knowledge and is common to all life forms existing after the creation of the Cosmos. However, this type of simple ignorance is an ever-active agent, urging the mind and awareness onward to the possession of knowledge. From this virginal state of unawareness grows the desire to become aware with its resultant improvement in the life form's mental condition. Your intellect is ever surrounded by forms of existence beyond the perception of your mind's partially developed awareness. In your material physical world of objects and events not understood, the mind is a never-failing source of mental stimulus. Thus nature and evolution eventually provide wisdom with each life experience which result from one's effort to cope rationally with that life's events.
> 
> Only in the last analysis is the Ultimate Cause, or that which you acknowledge as the Creator, wise and good. Knowledge, virtue, and utility are one with the innate nature of good. Knowledge is a condition of knowing, brought about by the use of your mind. Virtue, as we define it, is a condition of being; and utility a condition of doing. Therefore, you may consider that wisdom is associated with mental completeness and maturity. It is evident that such a state as we describe can only exist in the whole, for that which is less than the whole cannot possess the fullness of the All. No part of creation is complete by itself, Therefore, each part is imperfect to the extent that it falls short of the awareness of its entirety. Where incompleteness exists, there also must ignorance dwell to some degree. While it is essential that each part, or life form, be capable of knowing itself as individual awareness, it remains for the experiences of each life to bring awareness of its relationship with all in the Cosmos. In time, therefore, the isolated awareness of each individual fragment is reunited, to become complete awareness.
> 
> Then, and only then, is the condition of complete awareness an absolute reality. Then all life forms are relatively ignorant, yet relatively wise. A microscope reveals to you on Earth your significance in the Cosmos. Your telescopes, your insignificance. Through eternities of Life experiences men and women on your planet are gradually increasing in wisdom and understanding. Under nature's control, this would require countless centuries at your present rate of progress. Now, because the timetable of events concerning your planet's evolution is accelerating, nature's method can no longer be tolerated. Therefore, the "Tensor Concepts" are once again presented to your minds so that your ever-expanding awareness can include more of the external universe within that which is your mind. Even now, in your present state of imperfection, it is dawning upon you that you can never be really happy until you are perfect in mind and spirit. That of all the faculties contributing to your self-perfection, none is equal in importance to your rational mind. Through the darkness of ignorance, only the illumined mind can see and it must lead the awareness of one's self into the perfect light of unity.
> 
> Since we have now discussed Simple ignorance and its potency in nature's evolutionary growth of awareness, we will now discuss the other form—Complex ignorance, which is a far more subtle and dangerous type. Complex ignorance may be briefly defined as ignorance of ignorance.
> 
> When through your failure to use your minds, your civilizations returned to primitive states, and you began the worship of nature, its elements and other related fetishes, men and women dwelt in a world filled with wonders they failed to understand. Now you have erected great cities on ancestral lands.
> 
> In your present time, you no longer regard yourselves as primitives. The spirit of wonder and awe that you exhibited and felt while you were living a primitive existence have been replaced by a sense of sophistication. In your present time, men and women worship their accomplishments, and relegate the knowledge of space and time to the background of their awareness or disregard such thoughts entirely. You have made a fetish of civilization, as you call it, and are overwhelmed by your fabrications of stone and steel. Your gods are now ones of your own fashioning. Men and women have forgotten how infinitesimal, how impermanent, and how ignorant they really are. Many are egotistically convinced that the planet Earth is the most permanent and important of all the heavenly spheres; and that the gods seated on their starry thrones must be fascinated by the momentous events taking place on your celestial ant-hill of chaos.
> 
> From age to age men have toiled on your earth to build cities so that they could play at being gods and rule over these cities with pomp and power. It is as though rich treasuries and millions of docile citizens could elevate these men above the dignity of their own thoughts and make their civilized accomplishments outshine the distant stars.
> 
> As your tiny planet proceeds along its orbit in space, it carries some billions of men and women who live and die oblivious to the magnificent existence lying beyond their terrestrial globe. Measured by the infinities of time and space, what are your captains of industry or lords of finance? If one of these were to rise until they ruled your entire planet, what would they be but petty despots, seated on a grain of Cosmic dust.
> 
> Your mind can reveal to you your kinship with MAN and the Cosmos. It can reveal that you are a brother to the stars which fill the heavens. It can lift you from being a taxpayer on a whirling atom of a planet, to becoming MAN—a citizen of the Universe. It can teach you that even though your bodies remain on Earth, of which they are a part, that there is a power and a spirit and an awareness of self with which you may become At One with the symphony of the Creator. Ignorance of ignorance, then, is that self-satisfied state of unawareness in which men and women, knowing nothing outside the limited area of their physical senses, proclaim that there is nothing beyond the boundaries of their perceptions.
> 
> He who knows of no Life or experience, but the physical, is merely ignorant; but, he who declares physical life to be all-important and elevates that belief to a position of supreme reality, such a one is Ignorant of his own Ignorance.

\- [Monka via Miller: July 7, 1974](https://github.com/oswg/akasha/blob/47fc58846cb312a87aba5d8ae090db8c6fcc0fae/scf/tensor-series/1974_scf_tensor-series_001/1974_scf_tensor-series_001.md)