---
title: Hatonn on the Two Creations
layout: post
date: 2026-02-04
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

When I began reading the archive from the beginning a decade ago, I remember running into concepts of "the creation of the Father" and "the creation of man" frequently, and it definitely seeped into my suite of concepts. It had an archaic ring to it that reminded me of this lineage's heritage in the channeling of Edgar Cayce (who after all was the first to use the term "Law of One" as far as I'm aware). As I started studying becoming an instrument, these messages from the 70s and early 80s rode shotgun with my practice contacts, and I found Laitos referencing the two creations even in [messages I brought through](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/2017/0429). This is all to say that the term and the idea to which it refers has a long history not only within the tradition but with me personally as well. 

Its influence continues to this day in the work of the Richmond Meditation Circle, where we have done many sessions exploring the differences between the two creations and the redemption of one in the other. To put it succinctly, the creation of man reflects sub-sub-logoic or man-made thought forms, whereas the creation of the Father reflects sub-logoic or nature-made thought forms. The difference in the vibrations of the two environs stems from this position in the logoic chain, we are theorizing, and as a result we plan to conduct more meditations and other workings in natural, unspoiled environments in 2026. It is a way in which self-conscious, third density entities learn to become co-Creators _specifically_ in the sense of being agents of nature. As [Monka puts it](https://har.center/2025-07-19/17/monka-on-tuning-to-the-planet), "you can slow down and wait to offer this fast-paced and energetically intense place upon your Mother Earth the complementary waveform, the balance to its own kind of vibrancy. What nature meets over the long run, you can meet in the moment in a much more immediate way."

To me, the important thing to understand about this imbalance in our human creations is that it is no one individual's fault, and we don't gain freedom from its pollution simply by seceding from society. We instead have to begin to take personal responsibilty for the thought forms we entertain —— an incredibly weighty duty at first —— and learn how to meet what is in front of us not with opposition or surrender but with the complementary vibration that balances it. But this is not an intellectual task; it forces us to recognize and reflect that cosmic, natural love that infuses the entire affair so that we can intuitively, and then collectively, reorient towards our Mother Earth, tuning to her needs as a people.

So I apologize for making this excerpt so much about my personal interests, but I hope this is a way you can perhaps touch into the love I'm trying to express. Nobody was more surprised than me to run into this passsage and realize its connection with our 2025 work, and if I've put too fine a point on it just ignore my words and attend to Hatonn's.

> We greet those who are new to this group, and we ask you this evening to declare your independence from the world of man. My friends, you live on a planet which is more beautiful than most of the other planets of your density in your entire galaxy. You have a greater variety of wildlife, of trees, of plants, of things that swim in your water and fly in your atmosphere. Each of these things, my friends, is a creation of the Father, and each act in service and love and in balance expressing that instinct, that which is love. And so, my friends, it is given to you to do and you are that which is infinite, that which is eternal, and thus you have been given that which is freedom, and you do not need to act on instinct. And thus, in your own strength and your own freedom, you have gone, as a race, and have created a world which does not, in any great extent, express the love and service that is the essence of the Creator. And as you take in those things which are about you in the creation of man, you leave the perspective that is yours by right, that is yours by nature. You leave your simplicity and become intellectual and complex, and you find yourself speaking many words and doing many, many things and expressing yourself in many, many ways that are not totally expressive of the love of the Creator.
>
> Nor do we say, my friends, that this is a fault of yours, for this is a lesson that has been drilled into you by a race who came before you, and that was a lesson drilled into them by those who came before them. Misunderstanding piled upon misunderstanding, and so your species has gone far down the road to separation, to world building, to physical and mental—both emotional and spiritual—and the walls that separate you, my friends, seem incredibly permanent.
>
> It is time, my friends, to understand that you can declare your independence from the world of man. This does not necessarily mean physical absence from the world of man, not physical reclusiveness from its activities. It means only that you commit yourself to understanding the lessons of the creation, those things that are true and all about you, those things that are inclusive in seed and flower, in sunshine, in harvest, and in the infinite and totally balanced cycles of your natural world.
>
> One among you, who is a master known to you as Jesus, said that, “I and my Father are one.” “I,” my friends, and “my Father.” Who, my friends, is “I?” Is it a man known to you as Jesus? But did he mean, instead, that all of us and the Father are one? We ask you to contemplate the oneness of the creation. I and my Father are not two, are not separate. There are no walls between us. I need only open that inner door of consciousness and listen, and in the silence, that which has been called in your holy works that still small voice, may speak to you. That which it speaks may not be expressed in words or many, many times in actions, but only in a sense of wholeness, of harmony, of balance, of that simple thing which we call love that has created not only us, my friends, but all that there is. All the stars that your greatest telescope can see. All of these things, my friends, are “I.” Place, time, personalities are all one. You cannot be anywhere but in the creation. But you can act, my friends, for you have the power of eternity within you.
> …
> We ask you to contemplate, my friends, those two creations —— that of the Creator and that of the sons of the Creator —— and you [to] ask yourselves which expresses love? And further, to ask yourselves how that love can be translated into the creation of man. For each of you, my friends, in each day, can express love in the creation of man, for there are no walls so high that love cannot express itself through. There are no doors that cannot be opened with love. And you have that love, my friends. It is not yours by personality or by heritage in the human sense. It is yours because you are part of the Creator, and the Creator created you in love, and there is that within you which is perfect and perfectly expressive of love. We ask you to contact that part of yourself which is the whole creation, which has the wisdom of the whole creation. We ask that you do this by inner listening, by service to others, or by any means which, for you, is your own unique method of finding the truth.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: October 18, 1978](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1978/1018)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1qvvbii/hatonn_on_the_two_creations/).