---
title: Hatonn on reform
layout: post
date: 2026-02-02
categories:
  - Meta/Legacy

---

I thought this was a good excerpt to pull for the conditions in which the world finds itself right now, where there is plenty of social and political turmoil. None of us can identify a concrete program to follow individually that can cut through the propaganda and agendas. It is easy to despair, and yet Hatonn poses the critical question: why *are* we here, in fact? This must be the guiding principle we follow as seekers; we cannot possibly know how to heal this intellectually or through some strategy. Only by learning how to be cleaner and cleaner windows for love to pass through and guide us can we hope to help, how to bring the Creator's cosmic love to bear.

Hatonn reminds us that we cannot manifest this love in and of ourselves. This is why we meditate and balance; so that it's not up to our personalities to get every detail right and consciously see the path from where we are to where we wish to be. As [Q'uo once put it so eloquently](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/2007/0731): we're not here to fix it; we are here to love it. And as we learn to free that love that created us and shapes us and issues from us, we free ourselves to simply be agents of a greater agenda than any ideology or policy can contain. We have power, yes -- but only as supplicants of our Creator, Who crafts our judgment and intelligence to perfection if we can simply yield to It and put aside our craving for certainty in worldly conditions. It's frightening, but isn't real love bound up in what is at stake?

<!-- more -->

>Our information is simple, my friends. A very, very simple truth we bring to you, the highest truth that we know, although we know that there is a higher truth, for we are not perfect. And that highest truth, my friends, is that we are all one. The universe has been made up of one substance and that, my friends, is love. How can I say to you, each a beautiful being that sits within your dwelling place at this time in meditation, that you are one being, one with us, one with each other and one with your beautiful planet. It is difficult, is it not, my friends, to see the truth. For you dwell in a dense physical illusion, as we would call it, in which energy seems to you to be mass. In which emotions, as they are, are habitually masked by your peoples, so that they speak falsely. And that falseness is believed as truth. And the separation goes on and on, my friends, among your peoples.  
>  
>Those who you choose to lead you, do not lead. And by choosing leaders you have somehow, my friends, given up the feeling of responsibility for yourself, the feeling of confidence that you can stand a beautiful and perfect soul upon your own two feet, figuratively speaking, and be able to do the very best that you can in clear conscience and in happiness, whatever the outcome. Choosing leaders that do not lead, and giving up your own choices to the leaders that do not lead, has left your peoples frustrated and confused.  
>  
>My friends, the answers lie not in outward reforms but first in the inner reform of each person that restores self-respect and reliance upon itself, knowledge of brotherhood and sisterhood and the ability to act on what you believe. Then, and only then, my friends, can you move forth into the world in which you are now living and learning and act for right or for wrong, but in the confidence that your judgment at this time is the best that it can be. And, my friends, how do you find that confidence that your peoples are so lacking? How can you find the love that has been lost in infinite separations? Nation to nation, people to people?  
>  
>We have come to tell you the truth of love and the power of unity. But we cannot do more than inspire you to find for yourself those truths. For each soul, my friends, each being, as we have said through this instrument many times, is a kingdom unto himself, a regal and imperial entity. Yes, we are all one, but the paradox is, my friends, that we are all unique and all completely necessary to the creation. And it is for each imperial entity to make the decision to seek for himself the truth of existence of consciousness. There are many truths, my friends. There are many, many levels of reality and each of your brothers that you meet may speak to you from a different level. But within yourself, my friends, you are at a unique place in your journey towards the truth. In order to seek the truth it is important that you make contact with that place within yourself which has a will to purpose, and when you make contact with your deepest purpose you will find that your deepest purpose is to seek the truth.  
>  
>Why are you here, my friends? To what end are you conscious at this time? To what end do you feel and sense and respond to the many, many things that occur to you within each day. Seek the answer to this question, my friend. Our most recommended procedure for this seeking is what many call meditation. This word, my friends, has many seriously unfortunate connotations and those who would perhaps most enjoy the practice of meditation are sometimes uncomfortable with the phrase, for they feel that it may involve a complex practice. We do not recommend any practice but only the resolve to seek and the repeated attempt to quiet the outer self so that that still, small voice, as your holy works say, may be heard.

\- [Hatonn via Rueckert: September 4, 1978](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1978/0904)

Originally posted on [r/lawofone_philosophy](https://www.reddit.com/r/lawofone_philosophy/comments/1qu5376/hatonn_on_reform/).