---
title: "Hatonn on the Function of Desire"
layout: post
date: 2026-06-09
categories:
  - Author/Jeremy
---

In this session you see Don trying to get back on the horse. Carla by this point is convinced that only he can bring through the truly scientific, technically precise information he really craves. But I believe Don is a poor channel because he wants that remove of the scientific observer, and this just isn't how channeling works. Don really doesn't put his all into being an instrument, I think, and that means he doesn't really get very far. 

How many times has Don channeled Hatonn on the subject of desire in the 70s? It's nearly every message through him. Towards the beginning of the session, Carla tried to pass Don her Latuii contact. Almost immediately he drops out of contact and starts talking as Don to Carla and "B," getting their buy-in on what he was picking up. It's really not very advanced channeling here, and in no time Hatonn has subbed in and the message picks up steam. 

<!-- more -->

The inquiry to Latuii is originally about "the Australian incident," perhaps referring to the [Disappearance of Frederick Valentich](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disappearance_of_Frederick_Valentich). Hatonn addresses their inquiry into the reasons for the encounter through the metaphysical, evolutionary concept of desire --- which, truth be told, must be so frustrating for a scientist to bring through! Desire brought the human into contact with a UFO because _desire always magnetizes us to its object_. It seems like a shallow answer, and so Carla as questioner of Don's instrument digs a bit further.

I'm particularly interested in their remarks on time and space, how these media create a certain type of experience that binds us to consequences of actions. The scientific investigator takes these not only as givens but as the ground of the phenomena they seek to identify. Talking about a philosophical, even emotional ground for experiential phenomena… it's just astoundingly ironic that Don wants this objective explanation, and he can't possibly be satisfied by Hatonn's response that it's all a function of desire. And yet Hatonn _specifically_ says the scientist receives what they actually desire! Poor guy; at least Hatonn avers that Don and company must be capable of understanding this message, otherwise they wouldn't be receiving it.

Not only is desire the ground of all this, it is operating constantly through our thoughts and actions to hone our incarnation. It operated _before_ our incarnation to put us in this position of choice now. It really begins to seem like the infinite detail of the physical illusion is, as Hatonn describes it, a gigantic _sleight of hand,_ misdirection of the highest order. It puts into perspective all the ancient myths that involve gods tricking humans --- but also humans getting one over on the gods by tricking _them_. It implies that spiritual seeking is all about recognizing the divine role of apperception, the creative and unique way we put the world together with our minds, our expectations, our thoughts and our actions. If that's how it operates, positing a contributing preincarnative dynamic doesn't seem so far-fetched.

> This information is sometimes difficult to understand and seems to be nonsense to those who have not progressed intellectually to the point of comprehending what I am giving to you at this time. For this reason certain subjects are not attempted except to those capable of understanding. The points that I have been bringing out about what you call injection of harm in the function of desire are very, very important points. To understand them sometimes requires considerable thought. It seems to you that in the case of a great battle or war there is a negative aggressor, who is able to inject great suffering and pain in those whom he attacks.
> 
> My friends, this is the apparent illusion. Everything that he projects he actually instantly receives. All those who feel the effects of his aggression and suffer seemingly from it, are suffering, in actuality, from their own acts of aggression. If a big bomb bursts in the middle of a crowd, some will be severely wounded, some will be killed, some will go unscathed. Your scientists can very accurately predict the probability of casualty for each person, taking into consideration his distance from the center of the blast and his position in the area subtended by his body.
> 
> But, my friends, what the scientist does not know is that what he receives in such a situation is what he deserves and desires. He deserves it because of desire. He is here in this particular position, at this particular time, experiencing this particular effect because of desire. He is receiving because of his desire, shall we say, a catalyst in the form of a projector. Your Earth, your planet, your entity vibration is nothing but a training program. It is not a random happening. It is not anything that most of your peoples believe it to be. It has been called by one who knows, one great sleight of hand. This is precisely what has happened. It is happening individually and at all times collectively.
> 
> These things can work this way, my friends, because of the nature of space and time. You experience the illusion of a certain amount of freedom and space in a continuing temporal experience that is ruled unbreakable by what you call the stream of time. But this is illusion. This is the key illusion that allows for the precise administration of the physical catalyst for your experience.
> 
> All events are, shall we say, programmed for your experience; programmed by your desire, and then experienced in what you understand as sequential time. Every thought that you think programs your experience, no matter how trivial. Every deed that you perform programs your experience, no matter how trivial. For this reason, you must say that we are sometimes amused by questions having to do with the reasons for a particular experience. Because from your point of view in the philosophy of those on the surface of your planet this time there is a completely different reason for everything.
> 
> The reason, my friends, is desire. The mechanism is that great sleight of hand that programs your experience. You do not live in a four-dimensional universe. You live in a four-dimensional illusion. You do not exist now at your present age and at an older age in the future, or at a younger age in the past. You exist, my friends, at all ages simultaneously. You experience the illusion of the aging process once more because of that great sleight of hand. You do not live, die and become reborn in that order, or any order, my friends. Because you are. Only the part of you that experiences the present illusion is born, grows through youth to old age and dies. And this, my friends, is a very important part of the illusion. For if the reverse occurred you would not learn. It is necessary in this density to experience the process that you know as aging. It is not necessary if you do not need it. If you need it, it is because you have desired it. No other reason, my friends. It is simply because you have desired it.
> 
> Now you experience it. It is illusory and transient. The question having to do with the infringement upon your will in this illusion is also of no consequence. Any infringement is there because you have desired it. My friends, what is the purpose? The purpose, my friends, is education. We give to you what we can to allow you to make greater use of this education. For only you can put knowledge that you receive to use. When you transcend that point, which we shall call the point between awareness of and lack of awareness of the illusion, you then accelerate your understanding at a much, much greater rate than previous to this awareness. You are thinking, my friends, that this is all that there is. Know yourself. And this alone will give you your freedom. Nothing else will do it.

\- [Hatonn via Elkins: November 18, 1979](https://www.llresearch.org/channeling/1979/1118_01)